README.md, before:

# joi-full

joi object schema validation with extensions as universal/isomorphic libarary for Node.js and bundled for the browser (babelified and bundled). Includes joi-date-extensions.

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/jeffbski/joi-full.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/jeffbski/joi-full) [![NPM Version Badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/joi-full.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/joi-full)
## Why?

There has been some difficulty in getting a reasonable version of [Joi](https://github.com/hapijs/joi) packaged for the browser both due to the size of bundling and with Joi 7.x.x switching to ES6 modules has added additional challenges.

I made a browser build of joi available at [joi-browser](https://github.com/jeffbski/joi-browser), but Joi@10 split date functionality into its own package `joi-date-extensions`, so I also created `joi-date-extensions-browser` but currently are having trouble when combining `joi-browser` and `joi-date-extensions` together.

In the meantime, this build was created which includes joi and joi-date-extensions and works on Node.js and provides a bundle for brower builds.


## Usage

Moment is a peer dependency so it needs to be installed as well.

```bash
npm install joi-full moment
```

```javascript
var Joi = require('joi-full'); // includes joi-date-extensions
```

Note: if you are using webpack with a babel loader you may need to exclude `joi-full` from being run through babel again.

In your webpack.config.js loaders, add an `exclude: [ /joi-full/ ]`

### Isomorphic / Universal JS - using in browser and on server (Node.js)

The `joi-full` package.json includes the `browser` field which directs browser builds to use to the prebuilt `dist/joi-full.js`


#### Webpack

An example of using `joi-full` with webpack is in `examples/webpack-basic`

```bash
npm install joi-full moment
```

You might need to add the following to your app's webpack.config.js to enable the package aliasing we configured in package.json

```javascript
  resolve: {
    packageAlias: 'browser'
  }
```

Note: if you are using webpack with a babel loader you may need to exclude `joi-full` from being run through babel again.

In your webpack.config.js loaders, add an `exclude: [ /joi-full/ ]`.


So in your code, you just require `joi-full`

```javascript
var Joi = require('joi-full'); // includes joi-date-extensions
```

#### Browserify

You can also use browserify to use joi-full. It should pick up the proper bundled file when it reads joi-full/package.json browser field.

```bash
npm install joi-full moment
```

So in your code, you just require `joi-full`

```javascript
var Joi = require('joi-full'); // includes joi-date-extensions
```

There is an example in `examples/browserify-basic`.

## Examples

There are three examples:

 - examples/browserify-basic - uses browserify to bundle joi-full with our src for browser
 - examples/node-basic - use joi-full with node.js
 - examples/webpack-basic - use webpack to bundle joi-full with our src for the browser

To use any of them:

```bash
cd examples/___
npm install
npm start
```

## Development

```bash
# builds dist/joi-full.js and dist/joi-full.min.js
npm install
npm run prepublish # when you want to rebuild
```


## Discussion

The main discussion about these difficulties has been in this github issue.

https://github.com/hapijs/joi/issues/528#issuecomment-128532221

See [joi-browser](https://github.com/jeffbski/joi-browser) for more details on the bundling issues.

Since this package is simply a bundling of the original joi and joi-date-extensions, please discuss defects or suggestions for those packages at:

 - [joi](https://github.com/hapijs/joi)
 - [joi-date-extensions](https://github.com/hapijs/joi-date-extensions)

Commit message:

add info about need for Promise and Map polyfills with old browsers

README.md, after:

# joi-full

joi object schema validation with extensions as universal/isomorphic libarary for Node.js and bundled for the browser (babelified and bundled). Includes joi-date-extensions.

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/jeffbski/joi-full.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/jeffbski/joi-full) [![NPM Version Badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/joi-full.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/joi-full)
## Why?

There has been some difficulty in getting a reasonable version of [Joi](https://github.com/hapijs/joi) packaged for the browser both due to the size of bundling and with Joi 7.x.x switching to ES6 modules has added additional challenges.

I made a browser build of joi available at [joi-browser](https://github.com/jeffbski/joi-browser), but Joi@10 split date functionality into its own package `joi-date-extensions`, so I also created `joi-date-extensions-browser` but currently are having trouble when combining `joi-browser` and `joi-date-extensions` together.

In the meantime, this build was created which includes joi and joi-date-extensions and works on Node.js and provides a bundle for brower builds.


## Usage

Moment is a peer dependency so it needs to be installed as well.

```bash
npm install joi-full moment
```

```javascript
var Joi = require('joi-full'); // includes joi-date-extensions
```

Note: Joi uses the new ES6 features, Promise and Map, so you may need to add polyfills to use with older browsers.

 - To see what browsers support Promise: http://caniuse.com/#search=PROMISE
 - To check what browsers support Map: http://caniuse.com/#search=MAP

Include the polyfill early in your code before requiring Joi. You can use the parts of `core-js` for the polyfill or use packages `es6-promise` + `es6-map`.

npm install core-js or es6-promise and es6-map
```bash
npm install core-js
```

```js
require('core-js/fn/map'); // sets up global Map
require('core-js/fn/promise'); // sets up global Promise
```

Note: if you are using webpack with a babel loader you may need to exclude `joi-full` from being run through babel again.

In your webpack.config.js loaders, add an `exclude: [ /joi-full/ ]`

### Isomorphic / Universal JS - using in browser and on server (Node.js)

The `joi-full` package.json includes the `browser` field which directs browser builds to use to the prebuilt `dist/joi-full.js`


#### Webpack

An example of using `joi-full` with webpack is in `examples/webpack-basic`

```bash
npm install joi-full moment
```

You might need to add the following to your app's webpack.config.js to enable the package aliasing we configured in package.json

```javascript
  resolve: {
    packageAlias: 'browser'
  }
```

Note: if you are using webpack with a babel loader you may need to exclude `joi-full` from being run through babel again.

In your webpack.config.js loaders, add an `exclude: [ /joi-full/ ]`.


So in your code, you just require `joi-full`

```javascript
var Joi = require('joi-full'); // includes joi-date-extensions
```

#### Browserify

You can also use browserify to use joi-full. It should pick up the proper bundled file when it reads joi-full/package.json browser field.

```bash
npm install joi-full moment
```

So in your code, you just require `joi-full`

```javascript
var Joi = require('joi-full'); // includes joi-date-extensions
```

There is an example in `examples/browserify-basic`.

## Examples

There are three examples:

 - examples/browserify-basic - uses browserify to bundle joi-full with our src for browser
 - examples/node-basic - use joi-full with node.js
 - examples/webpack-basic - use webpack to bundle joi-full with our src for the browser

To use any of them:

```bash
cd examples/___
npm install
npm start
```

## Development

```bash
# builds dist/joi-full.js and dist/joi-full.min.js
npm install
npm run prepublish # when you want to rebuild
```


## Discussion

The main discussion about these difficulties has been in this github issue.

https://github.com/hapijs/joi/issues/528#issuecomment-128532221

See [joi-browser](https://github.com/jeffbski/joi-browser) for more details on the bundling issues.

Since this package is simply a bundling of the original joi and joi-date-extensions, please discuss defects or suggestions for those packages at:

 - [joi](https://github.com/hapijs/joi)
 - [joi-date-extensions](https://github.com/hapijs/joi-date-extensions)
